The purpose of this lab was to learn and become familiar with function syntax and implementation in C++, as well as with pointers. Each section of the code will contain the same Initialize(), PrintVector() and Finalize(), as well as the pointer v which points to a vector array, and integers count and size. The initialize function intializes the vector array that v points to with a size of 2 and prompts the user to insert an integer value for each element of the array. Finalize() deletes the memory allocated to the pointer v. Both Initialize() and Finalize() are called in each script's main() function

For the Grow Function script, I wrote a function Grow() that would increase the size of an inputted vector array by 2. First I created a new pointer nv and had it point to a vector twice the size of the vector v. The components in vector v are then brought into the vector nv and the pointer v is reallocated to the newly created memory region assigned to nv.

For the Add New Element script, I wrote a function called AddElement() that adds 1 element to the end of the pre-existing array v and added it to the Grow Function script. First, I prompted the user for an input that they would like to add to v. I then assigned that input to the next available space in the current vector using the global count varaible, incrementing the count variable each time a value was added with this function. I also added a condition where if v was full, the Grow() function from earlier was called to double the size of the array. Finally, PrintVector() is called to print out the elements stored in v.

For the Remove an element script, I wrote a function called RemoveElement() that removed the last element of v without changing v's capacity. Note that this function was designed where the last "removed" array elements were still allocated a memory address in the referenced array, but those elements were no longer visible to the user. We did this by decreasing the value of count by 1, so that when the PrintVector function was called, the function would print one less element then the total elements in the array.

For the Insert an Element script, I wrote a function called InsertElement() that iallows the user to insert an element within the array at any index in the array. First, a conditional statement is used to check if the array is filled, and if the array is filled the Grow() function s called to double the array's capacity. The user is then prompted to input the value of the element they would like to insert in the array as well as the index they would like the element to be inserted in. A new array is then created with a capacity one greater than the previous array and is then filled with the elements of the previous array until the user-inputted index is reached. The user inputted value is then inserted into that index and the rest of the elements from the previous array are inserted into the new array. The value of count is then increased by one, and the pointer v is reallocated to the memory space of the new array.

For the Shrink By Half script, I wrote a function called Shrink() which consists of the same code as the Grow() function, but it instead reduces the size of the array by half. I also changed the code in the RemoveElement() function to ensure that the vector would not take up too much memory. First, I created two floating point variables to circumvent the integers count and size that were initialized earlier. Count is then divided by size to find the percentage of the capacity being used in the array without having to deal with truncation of decimals. A conditional statement is then called where if less than 30 percent of the capacity of the array is being used, then the array would shrink in half.

After completing all of the various functions, I then created a menu using a switch response statement nested inside a while loop so the user can select which function they would like to call or exit the program.
